Hi there. In this video we are gonna
talk about the difference between the absolute and
relative paths when you are on a Unix
system. So as we've described before on a
different video, the file system is just a
tree and the root path is slash and
all the directories for everybody who's using the
myth system or any, in fact, almost any
computer at Stanford has the files and directories
underneath that root. The absolute path of a
particular file is the path that starts with
slash from the root and lists all the
different directories up to the particular file or
directory that you are looking at as, it
goes along. So, if we do a I
happen to be, in my home folder and
a subfolder called CS one zero seven. If
I type p w d that says slash
a f s slash dot I r slash
user slash c slash greg slash c or
g blah blah blah. All of that and
that is the absolute path of the file
or the folder. Okay, so if I look
in, if I go into assignments and then
assignment zero, assignment zero and hello, I can
type pwd and that will give me the
directory, absolute directory for the assignment zero folder.
Okay, so if I was to actually do
the assignment zero folder and then hello, that
would be the absolute path to hello. Okay.
And there you go. And I've just run
that file hello from the absolute path. Now,
most of the time we don't wanna have
to type all of these paths because it's
a bit painful and we don't necessarily remember
what they are. But the nice thing about
Unix is that you are allowed to use
relative paths. So notice something, the path up
to here is just my home directory and
we actually have a shortcut for the home
directory called tilde. So if I actually type
tilde cs107assignmentsassign0hello that's a relative path for the
the hello program. Okay, so one way we
can use relative paths if we use the
tilde sign to say look start at my
home directory. Another way is to use the
dot and the dot dot files which we
already said stand for the dot stands for
the current directory and dot dot stands for
the parent directory. So if I wanna say
dot slash hello, well guess what, that means
in my current directory run the hello program
and it works perfectly fine. Now what if
I was in the assign one folder, right?
Well this folder doesn't have hello in it
but if I wanna run hello I don't
have to type the entire path again nor
do I even have to start from my
home directory path because I can just start
from here if I know that assign one
and assign zero are siblings of each other,
I can type dot dot to get to
the parent directory and then I can type
assign zero and then hello and that's a
relative path to go from where I am
to the hello program. Okay and there you
go. So you will use relative paths all
the time to refer to various places you
are. It's it's no fun trying to type
out the entire folder name from this giant
AFSIR business. It's just not not very fun
and 99.999% of the time, you don't need
to have an absolute path. Thank you.